[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: I have
an add function here.
I have a subtract function.
Pretty simple, right?
One of them is just taking
some numbers and adding them.
>> Brian Holt: We have
subtract function here.
It's taking a function or
taking two numbers and
subtracting them from each other.
And then here's kind of
an interesting one here.
We have this math function, right?
That takes a number,
another number and then a function.
So it's a function accepting
another function as a parameter or
functionception.
Just kidding.
So, this operate function is then going
to be called within this function.
Again this is kind of a contrived example,
but
>> Speaker 2: How does it know
that operate is a function?
>> Brian Holt: It doesn't, so,
you have to know that, as the programmer.
So, if this was not a function, it will
just throw an error and die essentially.
Which is scary, but you just have to
make sure every time you call math,
you have to give it two numbers and
you have to give it a function, okay?
So, does that make sense here?
This operate is a function
that is then being called.
So, you can pass different functions
into here and they'll be called.
So, let's just look this
very first line here.
Math the name of the function up here.
I'm giving it two arbitrary
numbers one and four for example.
And then I give it the add function.
Right, cuz add is function up here.
So, what would you
expect these to be then?
I'll give you a hint it's over here.
It is five, right.
Does that kinda make sense that this math
function is taking an add right here,
or rather it takes it in right there.
And then it's calling add.
Right so this function is being passed
into the function and then called.
Again, this is one of
the powerful parts of JavaScript.
You can pass functions
around like variables.
>> Speaker 3: I was just wondering the
slides have the links to the Code Pen, but
I noticed they're under your account.
Are they gonna stay available or
should we be trying to snag the code?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
I won't delete them.
So they should be there indefinitely.
Yup.
Okay.
So add one and four, for example.
Right.
That makes sense.
So now we're doing subtract five from
one right, that kind of makes sense?
Okay, I'm seeing mostly
head nods which is awesome.
Okay, I pulled this one out just to
make it a little bit more clear.
So here I'm storing the answer of
this math function right here,
I have four and five.
And this is what we call
an anonymous function right.
So this function does not have a name.
It's only actually being used
right now in this moment, and
then it just fizzles away
into the ether right.
So essentially right here what I've done
is I've written my multiply function, but
I wrote it just straight in there.
Right.
Like I just through it straight in this
math function.
So in this particular case it's
a function where it's returning
the multiplication of the two.
It's storing here at answer and then it's
just writing the answer out right here.
So looking at this knowing
how the other ones work,
what would you expect the answer to be?
Should be, 20 right?
Are we kind of, does that make sense?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 4: Question here, can the
function be called inside another function
without passing function as a parameter?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, the answer is it
depends on what context it's in, right?
So for example subtract right here
actually is on the global scope.
If you're writing your code right you put
very little into the global scope cuz
it's really bad.
It's really easy to overwrite stuff.
So I actually could say add right here.
And then everything would become add.
But that makes this math
function loose its power, right?
What was cool about this math
function is you could kind of
define the behavior of the function
from outside the function.
Which is kind of why we
use this operate pattern.
>> Brian Holt: Make sense?
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so I think one
of the questions you probably might
wanna ask yourself is is
this a useful pattern.
This seems kind of contrived.
Usually being explicit is
better than being implicit.
Because you wanna be able to
communicate with yourself and
other developers like this was my
intention with this piece of code.
So what I would say to that is, in
certain cases this makes a lot of sense.
We're about to jump into jQuery where
we're gonna use anonymous functions
all over the place.
>> Speaker 4: So on line 17 then,
when it calls function(a, b),
it's not really doing anything because
there's no operate defined, right?
>> Brian Holt: Right.
Right, so
this is just purely a function definition.
So this function is not being called.
Much like when we define this function
right here, it's not being called.
We're just-
>> Speaker 4: It's just an empty
definition, then?
>> Brian Holt: It's a function
definition that is defined it's
just simply not called yet.
So I mean put that in like the context
of the subtract right here.
>> Speaker 4: And
it's local to that function down there so.
>> Brian Holt: Yes, so it's going to exist
in the scope of this function right here
and then it's gonna fizzle away and
go away and never come back.
>> Speaker 3: So it's like a one-time?
>> Brian Holt: Exactly.
So it gets called operate up here,
then operate is called, and
then it just floats away,
never to be seen again.
That kind of make sense?
>> Speaker 4: So what's the point that
you're making by showing this example?
>> Brian Holt: The point is
that one that it's possible and
you're gonna see it all over the place.
And two that these can be very useful.
We're gonna get into click
listeners here and just a second.
And if you had to define
the different function for
every click listener that you ever
created it will be a huge pain.
This is just shorthand essentially,
it's much shorter to write.
And so
thus it's written all over the place.
>> Speaker 2: In terms of execution speed
is there a difference between the inline
function declaration versus
having a globally defined?
>> Brian Holt: It's gonna
be positively trivial.
The answer is I'm sure
there's some implication but
we're not even talking
about a millisecond.
>> Brian Holt: Or in other words,
don't worry about it.
There might be, but
it's not worth ever worrying about.
>> Speaker 2: Just wondering if you had
to iterate through a lot of the same.
>> Brian Holt: I'm again I'm sure you
could do millions and tens of millions,
and it would still make
trivial amounts of difference.
My answer probably is the same.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
Other questions on this?
This is, again, kind of intermediate
type JavaScript stuff that we're talking
about here so if this is hard,
it is hard, so.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.